# Buck-Boost Converter Simulation using Simulink

## Overview

This repository contains a Simulink model for simulating a Buck-Boost Converter. The project involves designing and analyzing the performance of the converter under various load conditions. The Buck-Boost Converter is a DC-DC converter that steps up (boost) or steps down (buck) the input voltage based on the duty cycle of the switching signal. This project assumes an ideal converter for simplicity.

## Project Files

- **`buck_boost.slx`**: The main Simulink model file for the Buck-Boost Converter.
- **`buck_boost.slxc`**: Compiled Simulink cache file for the model.
- **`images/`**: Folder containing screenshots of the waveforms.
  - `input_waveform.png`: Input voltage waveform.
  - `output_waveform.png`: Output voltage waveform.

## Results

Screenshots of the waveforms generated by the simulation are included in the `images/` folder.

## Commands

>> Vi=10;
>> Vo=-15;
>> Io=-4;
>> delta_Vo=0.01*abs(Vo);
>> 
>> % let frequency be10kHz
>> f=10e3;
>> 
>>  R=abs(Vo)/abs(Io),

R =

    3.7500

>> % duty cycle
>> D=abs(Vo)/(Vi+abs(Vo)),

D =

    0.6000

>> % let ripple in inductor current be 25% of output current
>> delta_iL=0.25*abs(Io),

delta_iL =

     1

>> % minimum value of inductance for converter to stay in continuous mode
>> Lc=(1-D)*(1-D)*R/(2*f),

Lc =

   3.0000e-05

>> % inductor required for given delta_iL
>> L=Vi*D/(2*f*delta_iL),

L =

   3.0000e-04

>> % L>Lc, so it will stay in continous mode only
>> 
>> % avg inductor current
>> iL=D*Vi/((1-D)*(1-D)*R),

iL =

   10.0000

>> iL_max=iL+delta_iL,

iL_max =

   11.0000

>> iL_min=iL-delta_iL,

iL_min =

    9.0000

>> % since iL_min>0 it will stay in contionuous mode
>> C=D/(f*R*(delta_Vo/abs(Vo))),

C =

    0.0016

